alright I have Rob with me here and he's
a student that has completed my docker
for Java developers course Rob can you
tell me a little bit about your
background yeah I do mainly software
integration and soft software
integration engineering with other
pieces I mainly work working to make
pieces talk to each other so using so
rest but not so much in just a making
those pizzas talk together but then
there's integration of those pieces in a
process so this needs that to happen
when this happens and so on and so forth
so using using things like a spring
integration model where you're reaching
out with me to JMS and talking to a
database here and maybe sending
something out to a queue on another spot
so it's kind of my day to day job is
building those pieces out for the
clients making those pay for it together
yeah yeah good old spring integration
and done plenty of that myself yeah kind
of laughs sometimes I feel like a
plumber I'm just taking bits from over
here and putting bits over there that's
really what it is there anybody it makes
it very easy yep so you've had an
opportunity to go through my docker for
Java developers course so yeah so would
you end up that that course is excellent
to the point that I the main point for
me was that I'm not really had a chance
to dive into docker and come up to speed
on it and the course that you that we
put together has really brought me up to
to the speed I need to be to really just
get started and kind of springboard my
way into getting integrations up and
going so you know it helps that you
focus on spring as well to take a spring
application and how to you know docker
eyes it basically how to make it run in
doctor but not not it just doesn't stop
at that it talks about docker the
history I saw that you updated
they video because docker changed its
model right so it had kind of the open
open-source model and then now which
which further shows their their
maturation to get it into the market and
providing the service our product there
but you went in and details going in
detail how it works best practices your
pitfalls that you've seen there's a
couple things that you touched on that
we said have bit you
that's good to know I mean the only way
for me to really deal with that is to
have to go through the pain of
experiencing it myself now and I didn't
really have the time for that this
course just gets right to the point
talks about how to get to it how to make
it work and that's what I love about it
this kids right to it
yeah thanks nice right yeah I had a know
it's working with about twelve months
that experien house over in Tennessee
there they process medical records like
a stupid amount of Records and we're
doing this a large project spring of
course and the CTO said yeah I want
everything containerized deployments
right and at that time I could spell
docker right exactly yes that's kind of
where I was at all right but I could get
I could get log files off of some
instances and such I could clunk my way
around to get to that point but is that
as far as actually spinning it up or
troubleshooting issues and and the
course is really helping me right now
cool I appreciate that
yeah actors are just an awesome
technology and Experian we actually are
running on their open ship okay yeah
that's that's where that where you
really see the power back or when you
start deploying it out there and you're
like okay we're going to pull up we're
going to provision 30 servers and we're
going to deploy these containers across
there and we want five I was a running
in six nodes of service B or whatever
the magic number is and you can even do
auto scaling within openshift and Kubrat
ease but at the time
docker swarm was not available so that
was that's happened since that the one
things that's really impressed me about
Dockers
the rapid innovation clearly the
company's startup but they're well
funded and they're showing a lot of
innovation in the market right now so
the doctors horn the originals form
product was kind of mean but the the new
swarm stuff is really matured nicely
yeah excellent it is it's a great it's a
great platform to leverage or starting
to see more more clients use it and be
open to it
sometimes it just occurred about it oh
yeah let me know you know tell me how
does that work well it's again it
through benefit you know through reaping
the benefits of the course I'm able to
spin something up quickly and have it
available because I know how now and
then able to take a even a silly stupid
simple spring application just for pee
as a light POC or something good to say
this is it this is how we could do it
well how can we spend things up on the
on the fly and things like that and all
that orchestration can be done like you
said you can you can really take it
beyond to that enterprise level and
getting into kubernetes and and
openshift
and and you gave examples of you know
like Google's using it oh and tons of
these types of things images that are
being used on a daily basis just for
operations to make things work so it's
yeah it's brought up a great point about
prototyping that's messily fantastic got
a needle spring boot cookbook there and
that's a variety of technologies and
every time I was using docker containers
like I want to take to take meal for J
out for a test spin and kick the tires
on it's like okay I'll just go start up
a container with that and connect to it
boom right yeah the recipes that you put
in there excellent I haven't had a
chance to go through them all because
they dive into one and I'm like oh this
is excellent I can use this right now
and I get to work on it but like Neil
for J or some some other pieces that
I've never worked with I haven't worked
with that one personally you know going
through the pain of setting that up on a
system maybe set up a separate VM so you
don't
you're working workstation knowing
through all of that I mean it when you
know it's nice that we had VMs and we
had VM does like a cool you know now we
can be this now it's even abstracted and
even more making it easier to we're
firing up a VM is like too much time oh
you know it's like old school it's like
now you and you can easily do this bring
it up and and like you said prototype
something quickly save it for later tear
it down what have you so yeah the course
has been fundamental in bringing my
knowledge up undock er awesome i bombs
to that point yeah but here that and
yeah with the vm she brought up I'm a
little more seasoned in the industry so
I remember previous and the whole what
we're going through with docker right
now reminds me a lot what we went
through
years ago when BM started coming out on
the marketplace cos when I started it
you had a server a physical box then it
was a box and you didn't have you
weren't able to carve it up into VMs and
have your own will environment on it so
to see technology change like this and
we thought VMs are like the gift the
delighted exactly yeah yeah Lina jobs
were like yeah and the crazy part is I
think it was a hit 95 98 somewhere the
Solaris 10 came out and sounds like oh
we got those container technology and
everybody's like containers awesome and
then they're like what do we do with
them right exactly yeah I mean it's
definitely not something that's
it's not like it's brand-new because it
has been in in some of those you know
and unix in the past and such but yeah I
think it was ahead of its time
yeah yeah what docker really did is they
gave us a way to configure container
make it portable and take it from one
system to another so that's really I
mean their container technology before
when Solaris came out with it was like
okay we have this little walled garden
are going to call it a container right
and it'll be well off within its like
mobile operating system and everybody's
like that's really cool what do we do
with it
exactly and it probably was specific to
Solaris I'm assuming and you know we
could easily move that around there
wasn't a platform yeah I mean that
Cassius when Solaris 10 came out I think
Linux was in its infancy so yeah yeah
now he would still probably still
playing with the code yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah I'm I'm excited about the
technology it's going to continue evolve
and get better especially with their
funding and we're like oh if you saw the
interview with James some of the
conversations is James I can't remember
it's interview or not but they're
actually Dockers like one competing
container technology and there's others
now that Red Hat is actually looking at
coming up with a standard of container
technologies so that's going to be
interesting to see how the market
evolves and see if there's alternatives
to doctor that become viable
alternatives so that men should be kind
of cool to see how things evolve in that
space yeah interesting yeah I hadn't
heard of that yet
and I got I've always got my head in
some code somewhere so I mean I need to
pull my head up every now and then and
see what's going on but again that comes
right back to you know like your course
if you if you were seeing this type of
stuff and you know like you posted the
we added the video about you know when
it when there was a change in in
offering for doctor I mean those types
of things are excellent because I don't
personally I don't have the time you
know if I'm chasing clients or something
I aren't the time to stop and read and
go oh you know what about this or you
know now Red Hat is really something on
its own or something like that and that
that's priceless to me because again
it's time that we're doing where do I
start
when I go to look things up so all those
additions that you put an addendum of
course was perfect yeah yeah and
actually one thing that's in the oven
right now and just a prefixes we're
recording this early July of 2017 right
now I hope it realistically it's
probably be August before I can take
this content why working with a
somebody's
one through my courses but he's also an
AWS expert and in the last 12 months 12
18 months 8 OBS is really about what
they have for docker support and writing
a whole module to the course on the
docker support with inside of Amazon Web
Services so that should be some really
class is excellent
yeah because they did of us is
everywhere yeah I mean it's used by
organizations you know huge enterprises
to small companies and that's that's
good to hear it would be good to see I'm
excited to see that and how to leverage
that that way you know you're not
dealing with Hardware of your own to
manage all of all of your containers and
tears right so all that's sitting out
there on the cloud perfect yeah yeah I'd
love a AWS I mean my blog website that's
running on AWS I have a DevOps course
with aw so I've been AWS music for a
long time so I'm big fan of it but if
that platform is involved so much I
can't keep up with it's like right he's
going with new features only when they
have this right yeah I know I got an
email the other day about all these
extra things and you know this is
available in this data center or this
region now and it's just like what I
didn't even know you had that so yeah
yeah guys it's hard to keep up with
everything they're doing but it's a
great platform and they continue to
evolve and grow that too so yeah their
doctor support has significantly changed
in the last 12 months can do some really
cool stuff so the one I'm actually going
to be learning from that piece there so
I'll be fun to go through for me when
Jim gets done recording it so awesome
alright wait
alright well thanks for your time today
I definitely appreciate it yeah
absolutely love it love the course love
the card said keep up the good work
alright thanks Cheers
you
[Music]